The article, titled "PKP 3.0 Not Expected to Significantly Impact Economic Growth," relates to Bank Negara Malaysia as it discusses the expected economic growth and challenges faced by the country. Minister of Finance, Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz, stated that a complete lockdown like PKP 1.0 would lead to unemployment reaching seven percent or more than one million unemployed individuals, affecting self-employed, youth, women, and low-skilled workers most significantly. He also mentioned that micro, small, and medium enterprises (PKS) are at higher risk of facing revenue loss due to the closure of the entire economy. With the reimplementation of PKP 3.0, certain service sectors heavily reliant on physical interactions such as tourism will continue to be affected by travel restrictions and social distancing measures. Despite these challenges, the government is confident that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth will continue to grow at a rate of 6-7.5 percent, in line with the International Monetary Fund's (IMF), World Bank, and Asian Development Bank's forecasts. The government also expects economic recovery to be supported by the growth of Malaysia's major trading partners such as Singapore, China, and the United States. The implementation of the National Covid-19 Immunization Programme (PICK) is expected to drive the opening of various sectors, boost consumer sentiment, and ultimately economic growth and resilience. However, Tengku Zafrul acknowledged that the economy still faces risks and uncertainties in the domestic and global economic environment, including the spread of new Covid-19 variants, stricter containment measures, and vaccine supply challenges. The Minister also confirmed the GDP growth rate for the first quarter of 2021 announced by Bank Negara Malaysia and the Department of Statistics today, which shows a contraction of 0.5 percent year-on-year, significantly lower than the negative 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020. The growth in the first quarter was driven by the manufacturing sector's growth of 6.6 percent (compared to 3.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020) and agriculture growth of 0.4 percent (compared to negative 1.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020). Overall, all economic sectors in the country have shown signs of recovery through lower annual contractions compared to quarterly contractions before this.