Bank Negara Malaysia expects the reimplementation of the Movement Control Order (MCO) 3.0 on May 10, 2021, not to have a significant impact on economic growth as almost all economic sectors are allowed to operate. However, Finance Minister Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz stated that closing down the entire economy like MCO 1.0 would lead to unemployment reaching seven percent or more than one million unemployed, primarily affecting self-employed, young, women, and low-skilled/low-income individuals. He also noted that micro and small businesses (SMEs) are at higher risk of experiencing revenue losses due to the full economy shutdown.

Despite this, Tengku Zafrul stated that the government is confident that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth will continue to grow by 6-7.5 percent, in line with international financial institution projections of 6.5 percent (International Monetary Fund), 6 percent (World Bank), and 6 percent (Asian Development Bank). He added that the recovery of the Malaysian economy will also be supported by the growth of major trading partners such as Singapore (0.2 percent), China (18.3 percent), and the United States (0.4 percent) in the first quarter of 2021.

Tengku Zafrul also mentioned that the National Covid-19 Immunization Program (PICK) will drive the opening of various economic sectors, improve consumer sentiment, and subsequently promote economic growth and resilience in Malaysia. However, he warned that the economy still faces risks and uncertainties in the domestic and global economic environment, including the increasing spread of new Covid-19 variants worldwide, which affects global and trading partner economies due to the stricter implementation of containment measures; and supply chain disruptions for Covid-19 vaccines that will aid efforts to achieve herd immunity.

The GDP growth rate for the first quarter of 2021 announced by Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) and the Department of Statistics today is -0.5 percent year on year, which indicates a significantly lower contraction compared to negative 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2020. The growth was driven by the manufacturing sector, which grew by 6.6 percent (fourth quarter 2020: 3.0 percent) and the agriculture sector, which grew by 0.4 percent (fourth quarter 2020: negative 1.0 percent) year on year. Overall, all economic sectors in Malaysia have shown signs of recovery through lower annual contractions compared to quarterly contractions before.