Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has reported a marginal 0.5% decline in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the first quarter of 2021 compared to the same period last year. Governor of BNM, Datuk Nor Shamsiah Mohd Yunus, stated that the economy showed recovery from the fourth quarter of 2020 with a negative growth of 3.4%.

The recovery was supported by strengthening in the manufacturing sector and agriculture recovery. The governor noted that the monthly GDP figures for January and February recorded declines of 3.5% and 3.6%, respectively, but recovered to 6% in March 2021.

For the comparison between fiscal quarters, the first quarter of this year showed a recovery of 2.7% compared to negative 1.5% in the fourth quarter of 2020. The overall better performance indicates an increase in domestic demand and strengthening exports.

During the same press conference, Malaysia's Finance Minister, Datuk Seri Dr Mohd Uzir Mahidin, stated that all economic sectors showed recovery influenced by the reopening of more economic activities during the second phase of the Movement Control Order (MCO) 2.0.

The recovery was also driven by increased household consumption and the impact of i-Sinar, i-Lestari, and palm oil and rubber commodity prices. The manufacturing sector grew by 6.6% in the first quarter of 2021 compared to a growth of 3% in the fourth quarter of 2020, mainly driven by electronic products, chemicals, rubber and plastic products, and petroleum products.

On the other hand, agriculture showed a growth of 0.4% compared to negative 1% in the fourth quarter of 2020. The service sector, which is the main contributor, shrank by 2.3% from a decline of 4.8% in the previous quarter.

However, the sub-sector Trade and Retail grew by 1.2% compared to negative 1.4% in the fourth quarter of 2020. The Finance and Insurance; and Information and Communication sectors each grew by 11.3% and 6.3%, respectively.

Despite this, the service sector continues to show negative growth due to a decrease in food and beverages and accommodation which fell by 29.8% compared to the fourth quarter of 2020, an improvement from negative 35.3% in the previous quarter.

Minister Mohd Uzir explained that all components of consumption indicate signs of recovery driven by exports and imports, which are growing at two-digit rates supported by improved commodity prices.